You seem to not need SAS with tailwind but
I like that SAS as features like each for
make sense maps if else in color
functions does tailwind have
similar features they accomplish
this in a different way.
Or do I still need to use SAS
with Tailwind to get them?
>> It all depends, right?
And so Tailwind effectively
has roughly what CSS has,
which is a closing gap at a certain point.
So in terms of a certain amount of color
filters, yeah, you have those, right?
Each, no, because to my knowledge,
not in the CSX spec these days.
So, you don't have each, but
then it all depends, too,
if you've got components as well.
But the thing is, so
yes-ish, no-ish, right?
And then the nuance there is.
Post CSS does have all those things,
right, and
since you are using post
CSS under the hood,
if there are particular things that you
want, I'll show you the posts yes plug in.
The like range of like both.
You can do the nested syntax,
both the SAS version, as well as the like,
spec of nested CSS selectors
that is currently being,
going through the process,
you can pull in a whole
bunch of either future syntax,
and even fictitious syntax.
I think a certain amount of like,
each is and stuff along those lines.
And so
these are the set of post CSS plugins.
So because you are using post CSS under
the hood in most cases and using tailwind.
If there is a particular feature that
you're like, I need that feature,
the chances of that existing
somewhere in this long, long,
long list of post CSS plugins is
probably fairly high at this point.
So like I think it depends.
Out of the box, it's not gonna do
everything that a custom language that's
not CSS is gonna do, but
then you can also extend CSS.
And if you are using any
kind of JavaScript setup,
then you might also be able
to do it there as well.
Yes-ish is the answer to that question.
Maybe it depends.
In that case as well.
>> In tailwind,
we don't use features like the cascade.
Do you think that's a good trade off?
>> Can you repeat the question?
>> Like CSS features like the cascade?
>> Directly you can use the cascade,
right?
If I put a text color, like up on this
top one, it will cascade down, right?
It's like under the hood.
I tell when it's just
applying CSS classes, right.
So you will get if I said text read.
300 here, why do I keep picking 300?
That's a ridiculous color to pick.
Let's go with 500, right?
You will see I put that
on this top level div.
Now the h1 has a purple, so set overrides
it, but the paragraph did turn red.
Like CSS still applies.
This is basically a utility knife for
making C, writing that CSS easier with
a bunch of classes that kind of like are,
you can snap together to what you need.
But it is effectively CSS at
the end of the day that's where we
can like hover over and
see the actual selector.
Yes, there are some like CSS variables
in there so on and so forth but
like at the end of the day it is,
it's all CSS so it all applies.
>> Could you review when to use the
utility layer versus the component layer?
>> Yeah, so component layers are for
those reusable pieces.
Like if I wanted a button class and
I had maybe the button primary,
button dangerous,
utilities are like, I want to.
Add a little bit more margin to this one,
or
I want to be able to do something a kind
of a one-off that you maybe don't wanna.
You think about the idea of a card or a
button, things components that the useful
tool is things that you would put in
your component library, the nouns,
if you will, right?
But then if you had one of those buttons,
I need to make this one a little
bit bigger, some set of things where I
need to make it both, a little wider and
a little larger or something like that,
those would go in the utilities.
Those are the things you would use
one-off that are not what it means to be
a button, right?
And again,
it's mostly around those layers in CSS.
So like the one-offs come
later in the layer stack,
which means they have higher
priority over the components, right?
And they can have the same specificity.
All right, but yeah,
I'll just be reading random classes.
If you ever find yourself like trying to
come up with a more specific selector just
to get what you want done.
You don't have to do that because
you've got the layers, anything and
utilities comes after the components
layer, which means it will have
precedence over anything,
even if it has the same specificity.
So it's mostly like base styles.
that's the lowest layer, right, your
components might be stuff that builds on
top of a div, on top of a button,
so on and so forth.
Those should have preference over those
base styles, and they would have anyway
because classes have a higher specificity
than just a button or whatever.
And then those one off things like,
I need to make this wider, or
I need to make this, in some way,
should have higher specificity
over what it means to be a button.
So base will always be at
the bottom of the of the list, or
your utility will be at the top of
the list, I'll always override,
they're the one-offs,
you're pulling them out.
And that way you're not using stuff
like important and you're not
trying to come up with ridiculous
selectors that happen to be more specific.
And adding like two classes that you
chain together and stuff like that,
you will be more intention about what
the of your selection are rather
than trying to trick CSS
into doing what you want.